If your PC's stuttering mid-game, your
frames are inconsistent, or Windows just
feels like it's fighting you instead of
helping you, this is the video you need.
We're going to go through a full PC
optimization today. BIOS, Windows,
drivers, network, all of it. And by the
end, your PC's going to feel like a
completely different machine. Now,
before you skip thinking this is just
another generic YouTube guide, let me
tell you exactly why you should listen
to me. My name is Zilly, I run one of
the top PC optimization service on the
internet at zilly.net. We have
personally worked on over 10,000 PCs,
and that number's going up every day.
Our clients include some of the biggest
names in competitive gaming. We've
worked with Bugha, the Fortnite World
Champion, Tayson, as well as Call of
Duty legend Parasite. And on the
streaming side, ScypherPK, Oatly, and
Typical Gamer have all trusted us with
their setups.
>> [music]
>> These are people whose careers depend on
their PC being dialed in. Milliseconds
matter, frames matter, input lag
matters, and they come to us. So, yeah,
if you want the same process we run for
pros, stick around, let's get right into
it. All right, step one before we touch
Windows and before we run anything,
before we install a single driver, we'll
be starting in the BIOS. I see people
skip this constantly and then wonder why
their RAM isn't running at the speed
they paid for, or why certain tweaks
aren't sticking. Nine times out of 10,
it starts here. The first thing we need
to do is get your BIOS up to date. Open
up your browser and head to your
motherboard's manufacturer's website. If
you don't know what motherboard you
have, press Windows plus R, type
msinfo32,
hit enter, and look for baseboard
product. Click on it, press control C on
your keyboard to copy it, paste it into
your browser, and add the word support
after it, and it'll bring up the support
page as the first result. Then, you're
going to download the latest stable BIOS
version from the support page. Don't
grab a beta unless you want weird
problems.
If you're on ASUS, ASRock, or MSI, we
can update the BIOS without a USB drive.
So, go to disk management, shrink your
drive, which is going to be right here,
by 100 megabytes, and on the unallocated
space, make a simple volume, and ensure
the file system is set to FAT32, and
just label it BIOS.
If you're on Gigabyte or any other
motherboard, extract the file onto a
FAT32 formatted USB drive. Now, we start
your PC and spam the BIOS key on boot.
That's usually going to be delete, F2,
or F10, depending on your motherboard.
Once you're inside the BIOS, you're
going to be looking for something called
a flash utility. ASUS calls it easy
flash, MSI calls it M-Flash, Gigabyte
has Q-Flash. So, for me, it's going to
be under tool, and ASUS easy flash.
Navigate to the drive where you made
BIOS partition or the USB drive that you
have, and select the file for the BIOS
update. Then, just let it do its thing
after you press yes a whole bunch, and I
cannot stress this enough, do not cut
the power during a BIOS flash, and be
patient as it will restart a couple
times during the process. All right,
BIOS updated. If you're on ASUS, just
press F1 to get right into BIOS. If
you're on any other motherboard, it's
going to go directly to your Windows.
Just restart your computer and spam the
BIOS key again. Now, let's go through
the settings we actually care about.
First, it's going to be XMP, DOCP, or
EXPO. Go into your memory settings and
enable XMP or DOCP if you're on Intel,
and EXPO or DOCP if you're on AMD. This
is what makes your RAM run at the speed
you paid for, and if this is off right
now, your 6,000 MHz is going to be
running at maybe 4,800 MHz. And that's a
massive performance difference,
especially for real 1% lows. And it's
just a one-click fix. Quick note, if
you're on AMD, then make sure you're not
going above 6,000 MHz as the motherboard
will automatically put you in a mode
where the CPU's memory controller speed
will be dropped by half. If you have a
RAM kit like mine that's at 7,200, set
it manually to 6,000. Second, it's going
to be resizable bar support. Also, this
setting requires above 4G decoding. Make
sure these two are enabled. It gives
your CPU access to all of your GPU's
VRAM at once instead of in tiny chunks.
And it can genuinely increase your FPS
depending on the game. There's basically
no reason to have this off. Third, it's
going to be precision boost overdrive on
AMD. For ASUS, just set it to
enhancement. For all other motherboards,
you can pretty much set it to advanced,
and then PBO limits set to motherboard.
And for all AMD, we can set the CPU
boost clock override to enable positive,
and max CPU boost clock override to 200.
If you're on Intel, then ensure
multi-core enhancement or similar is
enabled. And for the people who are on
the latest Intel chipset, which is the
Core Ultra series, then enable Intel
200S boost. Fourth, it's going to be
secure boot. Make sure this is turned
on. By default, it should be on. And I
know some of you have been told to turn
this off. Don't. Anti-cheat softwares
and games like Fortnite and Valorant
depend on it, so just leave it alone.
Fifth, it's going to be any power saving
modes under your PCIe settings. Disable
anything that is related to power
gating, clock gating, or ASPM. And for
ASUS, it's an onboard devices
configuration and these top two
settings. Sixth is disabling any
integrated graphics if your CPU has it.
Most of us around here use the dedicated
graphics. And for those of you who have
the HDMI or display port plugged into
your motherboard, now's the time to
switch that over to your actual graphics
card. Then, just save and exit and let
it boot into Windows. If you're a
long-time subscriber or have been
watching for a very long time, you might
notice that I didn't go that in-depth
into BIOS. The reason for that is just
because I'm making this guide for
everyone, and I'm trying to make it as
easy as possible to follow. So, if you
want the full in-depth guide, go look
around my YouTube channel for the
YouTube guides for AMD or Intel and
follow those. All right, we're in
Windows, and before we do literally
anything else, we need to sort out your
account setup. Because if you're signed
into Windows 11 with a Microsoft
account, you have a problem and you
might not even know it. Here's what
happens. Your Microsoft account is tied
to their authentication servers, so
anytime your login token decides to
expire at the wrong moment, anytime
there's a server hiccup on their end,
you can get locked out of your own
machine. Your PIN stops working, you
reboot, and suddenly Windows is telling
you it can't verify your PIN. I've seen
this happen to clients, it's not
hypothetical. And on top of that, a
Microsoft account syncs your settings,
activity, and behavioral data across
devices. We're about to run a playbook
that cleans all that stuff up. So, last
thing we want is for a Microsoft account
to silently re-enable stuff in the
background. So, we're switching to a
local account first, and this is not
optional. Go to settings, then accounts,
click your info, and you should see an
option that says sign in with a local
account instead. Click that, and Windows
will walk you through creating a
username and password. If you don't want
a password like me, you just leave it
blank. Now, if you don't see that
option, you might need to verify your
account or do something to validate your
Microsoft account prior to switching to
a local account. Once you've made the
switch, it'll automatically sign you out
and tell you to input a password if you
put one. All right, so now it's time for
the main event. This is the Zilly
playbook built specifically for this
video, and I want to be upfront about
this. We're not going to go in deep into
every single thing it does because,
honestly, that would be its own separate
video. What I will tell you is the goal:
remove the AI garbage Windows ships
with, reduce your background process
count, and fix privacy settings. All
without breaking things like the
Microsoft Store or your game's
anti-cheat. It's surgical. We're not
just nuking everything and hoping for
the best. Stuff that matters stays, and
stuff that costs you performance without
giving you anything in return is going
to be gone. First, go to ameliorated.io.
It's going to take you to this page, and
we're going to download AME beta. And
this is the tool that runs the playbook.
It's the trusted platform that the whole
AME product is built on. It's been
around for years, and it's legit.
Download the latest version and extract
it, and just double-click it. It'll
automatically run as an administrator.
Next, you're going to need the playbook
itself. Join my Discord server and head
over to the tweaks channel and download
the X Lite playbook file. It'll be a
.apbx
file, which is the AME beta playbook
format. Download it and save it
somewhere easy to find, like your
desktop. Now, with AME beta open, you'll
see an option to load a playbook. Click
that and navigate to wherever you saved
the X Lite playbook file and select it.
For me, it's on the desktop. You should
see now it's loaded with my logo in
white and a brief description of what it
is. AME beta has some steps that we have
to do prior to applying the playbook,
like disabling Windows Defender. So, we
have to manually disable these four
toggles in Windows Security, then
proceed. So, click run action, click
open Windows Security, and turn off
real-time protection, cloud-delivered
protection, automatic sample submission,
and tamper protection. Then, close out
of that and press next. It'll tell you
it needs to do something to prepare the
system. Just click run action on that
and let it do its thing. It's going to
automatically restart.
Now, when it's done, it's going to
restart automatically. Just come back
once you're sitting at your desktop.
Welcome back, your system just went
through a big change. Here's what we do
from this point. The first thing that
you should notice is a folder on your
desktop called X Lite Extras. Open that
up, and everything that you need for the
next steps is in there, organized and
ready to go. So, inside of the X Lite
Extras folder, you'll find everything
you need for a GPU driver install. So,
go to the video drivers or AMD drivers
if that's your GPU. Run NVCleanstall
from that folder, and this is a tool to
install de-bloated drivers as well as do
some tweaks to the driver itself to
disable its NVIDIA telemetry. So, press
next, press next again. Now, you want to
check the first here, click disable
Ansel, show extra tweaks, disable HDCP
right here, and then disable driver
telemetry, and check these two options
at the bottom. Press next, press
install, and just wait for it to
download. After the driver's installed,
you can close out of NVCleanstall, and
in the X Lite folder, go to NVIDIA
drivers, open up NVIDIA Profile
Inspector, and drag the X Lite .nip file
into it, and it will apply profile with
the best NVIDIA settings. So, press okay
on that, press apply changes, close out
of that. Now, open up NVIDIA Control
Panel, and in adjust image settings with
preview, make sure you the advanced
image 3D settings is selected. Then, go
to manage 3D settings and make sure
everything looks configured just like
so. And if not, just reapply the
xlite.nip file with Nvidia Profile
Inspector. For AMD, go to the AMD Radeon
drivers folder and install the latest
drivers first. And I do have a separate
full guide for AMD that's linked in the
folder. The only portion that is
outdated in that guide is the Radeon
software slimmer portion. So, if you
watch it, please skip that portion.
Quick note, some of the latest Radeon
drivers have weird lagging issues with
the AMD control panel. If you get this,
then go back and install a previous
driver from December 2025. And if you
opt out of watching my full guide for
AMD, there is a screenshot of AMD
control panel settings that you can
follow that will do the basics. Now, for
all GPUs, open MSI mode utility and make
sure you run it as admin and ensure that
your GPU is checked and then press apply
on the top and close out of that. Now,
in the update drivers folder, there's
Snappy Driver Installer. This is what we
use to make sure your network drivers
are the latest update because outdated
network adapter drivers are responsible
for more latency spikes and packet loss.
People spend hours blaming their
internet provider when it could just be
a driver. So, run SDIo, press accept,
click download indexes, then just pretty
much let it scan your PC. Then, we're
going to update our network adapter
driver. If you don't have any network
adapter drivers showing up here or any
Wi-Fi drivers, that means they're
already updated, so you can pretty much
skip on that. That's all you really need
from SDIo. Don't just install everything
it finds. Target the network drivers
specifically and move on. Optionally,
you can install the Bluetooth drivers
from here if you do not have Bluetooth
working. There's a tweak in the xlite
folders that adjust how Windows groups
its SVC host processes. A lot of people
in the optimization community talk about
this one, so I want to be completely
straight with you about what it actually
does because most people oversell it.
What it does is it groups your SVC host
process together, so services do not
have their own SVC host, which lowers
your overall process count in task
manager. Visually, your system looks
leaner, but what it does not do is
improve your FPS and there is no
measurable frame rate gain, no latency
improvement, and because you're
combining services into shared
instances, your RAM efficiency actually
takes a minor hit. Bundled processes
share overhead less efficiently than
you'd think. So, it's a lower process
count on paper, but it's not free. If
you want it for the cleaner looking task
manager, it's just a one-click apply and
it's SVC host split threshold in KB in
xlite folder. Totally optional, just
don't expect it to do anything for your
actual performance numbers. I'd rather
be honest with you about that than have
you chasing a fake FPS boost. Inside the
xlite folders, you'll find a folder
called clean up. Open that up and we're
going to pretty much just run the disk
management disk cleaner software right
here. Click clean up system files, check
everything here, then just double-click
run disk clean. And this will
automatically just remove all the junk
Windows accumulates over time that just
sits there taking up space. It's quick,
it's safe, and it's worth doing after a
fresh play book run to start with a
completely clean slate. And one of the
last folders in the xlite extras folder
is the overclock controller folder. This
one's optional, but if you're on a PS4
controller, PS5, or certain modded Xbox
controllers, this is worth your time.
Inside, you'll find HIDUSBF. This is the
tool that lets you overclock your
controller's USB polling rate. By
default, most controllers report input
at 125 Hz or 250 Hz, meaning Windows is
only checking for new input 125 times
per second. HIDUSBF will let you push
that significantly higher, which fixes
up your input feel and reduces the delay
between you pressing a button and that
input actually registering. So, to apply
it, just click all on the top left, find
your controller, click install service,
click filter on device, and change
default to 1,000. Then, press restart
and it'll automatically restart your
controller and apply the overclock. Now,
the important part, after you apply the
overclocking, don't just assume it
worked. Also inside this folder is a
polling rate tester. So, run it, move
your controller around, and confirm the
polling rate is actually hitting the
number you set. If it's not, go back
into HIDUSBF and reapply or see if your
controller even works with this tool.
Some controllers actually do not even
apply this. You want to verify it
actually worked. Now, network adapter
tweaks. This one gets skipped constantly
and it shouldn't. We're going to go over
your into your actual network adapter
properties and clean up a few things
that Windows leaves enabled by default
that you just don't need. Inside your
xlite extras folder, you'll see a
shortcut called network connections. Go
ahead and open that. This takes you
straight to the network connections
panel in control panel. So, double-click
your active network adapter, which is my
ethernet. Click properties, and you're
going to see a list of items with
checkboxes. Most of these you can
uncheck. The only two things you want to
leave checked are internet protocol
version 4, that's IPv4, and QoS packet
scheduler. Everything else, uncheck it.
None of that is doing anything useful
for a gaming setup and there's no reason
to leave it enabled. Now, once you've
unchecked everything except those two,
hit okay, then go back to properties and
click configure. This opens up your
actual network adapter properties
directly from this UI. Go to power
management tab, and here's what you're
changing. Just uncheck everything here
or power management tab, just disable
those. Now, in advanced, you want to
look also for energy efficient ethernet
and any power saving options. This could
be power saving mode and ultra low power
mode. Now, once you found those, just
press okay and close out of the
properties windows, and that's your
network adapter sorted. Lastly, go over
Autoruns64.exe.
Press agree on this, and this is just
pretty much showing you what runs every
time you boot up your computer. So, if
we go to log on, you can see that this
Brave installer is running. I'm going to
go ahead and run this as an
administrator so I can actually uncheck
this. We don't need these three running.
And if you go to scheduled tasks, you
see the tasks that are being ran as soon
as you turn on your computer. So,
everything that's yellow is stuff that
actually doesn't exist anymore. So, you
can pretty much click on it and click
the delete button on your keyboard to
delete it. Or, you can just right-click
and delete it manually. In here, you can
pretty much leave except these Brave
software updates. If you don't care
about Brave updating automatically or
your favorite browser updating
automatically, you can pretty much
disable these or uncheck them. Then, in
services, as you can see, there's a SUS
update check. This is from my
motherboard's software. I actually don't
even have this installed, so I think I'm
going to go ahead and uncheck this. Same
thing with the Brave stuff. And game
input service, this lets stuff work with
services in Xbox. Pretty much uncheck
this if you don't use this. Then, you
can pretty much close out of Autoruns64.
And at this point, your system's going
to be clean, everything running is
intentional, and you built it yourself
knowing exactly what's on there, and
that's the goal. So, that's the full
process. BIOS is updated and configured
right. Local account is set up so
Windows can't lock you out. Play books
applied. GPU clean install with the
right settings dialed in. Network
drivers updated and adapter is tweaked
properly. So, there's no AI garbage
running in the background, no random
Microsoft processes eating up your
resources, no mystery stuff you didn't
put there. Now, if you want this done
for you, if you'd rather have our team
handle the full optimization remotely,
or if you want a custom Windows install
built from the ground up for your
specific hardware, go to silly.net.
That's x i l l y.net. Link is in the
description. We offer both an
optimization service, similar to what
you just watched, and a full hardware
tune where we overclock all the
components in your system for max
performance. Same methodology we ran for
Booga, Tayson, Parasite, and every other
client we've worked with. If these
tweaks worked for you, let me know in
the comments. If something went wrong,
drop a comment explaining exactly what
step happened on so we can help you sort
it out. And if you want to see more
content like this, subscribing genuinely
helps us make more of it.
Thank you for following this guide and
enjoy the performance you've unlocked.